README.md, before:

## Decoding Country Perspectives on the Rule of Law in U.N. Security Council Debates: A Comparative Analysis Leveraging à la carte (ALC) Embedding and conText Embedding Regression

### Group

![]()Jingyi Chen (jic090\@ucsd.edu)

### Overview

The rule of law is a fundamental concept in democratic state governance and international legal systems. In the United Nations Security Council (UNSC), where countries deliberate on global conflicts and collaborations, how countries frame this concept on the international stage can provide critical insights into their values and political objectives. How do the conceptualizations of the rule of law differ between China and Western countries such as the United States? To address this question, this project applied advanced computational text analysis methods of the à la carte (ALC) Embedding (Khodak et al., 2018) and the conText Regression (Rodriguez et al., 2023) to compare the contextual meanings of the rule of law in the UNSC debates between the United States and China and across countries with different democracy indices (Economist Intelligence Unit, 2010).

I conducted data merging and cleaning in [UNSC Data Pre-Processing.R](https://github.com/jchensd/POLI_179_Jingyi_Chen/blob/c9364474798a389fe38eec6f550556d666f3a6fb/Code/UNSC%20Data%20Pre-Processing.R) and [Democracy Index Data Pre-Processing and Merging with UNSC Data.R](https://github.com/jchensd/POLI_179_Jingyi_Chen/blob/c9364474798a389fe38eec6f550556d666f3a6fb/Code/Democracy%20Index%20Data%20Pre-Processing%20and%20Merging%20with%20UNSC%20Data.R). The code for my main analyses is in [Main Analyses.R](https://github.com/jchensd/POLI_179_Jingyi_Chen/blob/c9364474798a389fe38eec6f550556d666f3a6fb/Code/Main%20Analyses.R). See References for the links to the data used in this project.

The results suggest that the U.S. tends to understand the rule of law based on Western legal traditions emphasizing universal principles of justice, democracy, and human rights. In contrast, China links it to economic and social aspects, emphasizing development and stability. Showing a more pragmatic interpretation of the rule of law, China considers it as the means to create a stable and orderly social and political environment, both domestically and internationally; It focuses on the functional benefits of the rule of law, such as improving governance efficiency and promoting economic growth, instead of prioritizing individual rights and democratic values. Moreover, countries with low democracy indices tend to associate the rule of law with stability, which might suggest that the preservation of stability holds high importance for non-democratic regimes.

### Data

#### Overview

The main data analyzed in this project is the United Nations Security Council debates (Schoenfeld et al., 2019). The filtered data include 9441 speeches that mentioned "rule of law" from January 1995 to December 2020 and their document IDs, as well as the metadata, including country, speaker, and date. The mention of the rule of law in the U.N. Security Council has increased in the last two decades. While it was not frequently brought up during the debates, with about 10 percent of speeches that mentioned it among all speeches per year in the past 20 years (Figure 1), the manner in which countries discuss this concept can provide implications about their values and goals.

![Figure 1: Proportions of U.N. Security Council Speeches Mentioning 'Rule of Law' by Year](https://github.com/jchensd/POLI_179_Jingyi_Chen/assets/169096479/2e72ba6c-7540-4a3a-b6a6-af5afb57365f) Figure 1: Proportions of U.N. Security Council Speeches Mentioning 'Rule of Law' by Year

The Democracy Index is a value indicating a country's level of democracy, ranging from 0 to 10 (Economist Intelligence Unit, 2010). I used democracy index data in 2010 to analyze the difference in the meaning of the rule of law among countries with higher and lower democracy scores.

#### Data Pre-Processing

I merged the separate files of the original data package using the shared document IDs. Because the primary objective of this project is to examine how the phrase "rule of law", or the targeted/focal term, is used by different countries, it was made into one term, i.e. "ruleoflaw". Also, because I am also interested in whether some countries are more likely to link "human rights" to "ruleoflaw", the former phrase is also made into one term, i.e. "humanrights". "United Nations" and "Security Council" were also made into single terms. The whole dataset of speeches was filtered into only those that mentioned "ruleoflaw".

Then, I converted the column of texts into a corpus and tokens. I also conducted common text pre-processing using the "quanteda" package, including removing punctuation, symbols, numbers, separators, English stopwords, words with 2 or fewer characters, and words appearing less than 5 times in the corpus (I used "padding=TRUE" to leave an empty string where the removed tokens previously existed), as well as converting words to lower case.

### Methods

#### 1. à la carte (ALC) Embedding

I used the "conText" package (Rodriguez, 2023) developed by Rodriguez et al. (2023) to conduct analysis in R. In order to examine the contextual meanings of "ruleoflaw" by analyzing words surrounding this term, I collected 6 words before and after every instance in which "ruleoflaw" was mentioned among the speeches as well as the metadata associated with the instance. A document feature matrix was built, where the rows were the total 16145 instances of "ruleoflaw".

Then, I estimated GloVe embeddings from the 9441 U.N. Security Council speeches using the "text2vec" package. A transform matrix (Matrix A) was computed using the "compute-transform" function. It helps weight the common, uninformative words lower in the embeddings.

The ALC embedding method estimates the embedding of the targeted word in a specific context by taking the average of the embeddings of words surrounding this word (e.g. 6 words before and after the targeted word) (Khodak et al., 2018). I obtained the embeddings of the words surrounding the 16145 instances of "ruleoflaw" from the GloVe model estimated previously and applied the transform matrix to construct a document-embedding matrix that contains the embeddings. Then, I took the column average of these embeddings to get the context-specific embedding for "ruleoflaw". With the GloVe embedding model, I found nearest neighbor features for country-specific "ruleoflaw" embeddings. I also computed cosine similarities between China and U.S.'s "ruleoflaw" embeddings and available features in the corpus to find words that distinguish the two countries the most. To obtain the ratios, it first computed the cosine similarities between the embeddings of "ruleoflaw" and available features in the corpus for China and the U.S. Then, it takes the ratio of cosine similarities between the two countries for each feature.

#### 2. conText Embedding Regression

Using the conText regression model, I regressed the embedding of "ruleoflaw" over the 2010 Democracy Index. Before doing so, I merged the U.N. Security Council dataset with the 2010 Democracy Index data. Speeches by NGOs, supranational unions, and a few countries for which Democracy Index data were unavailable were removed from the dataset. There are 7879 speeches by countries left.

After constructing the regression, I obtained the embeddings for countries at every 5th percentile of the democracy index that was estimated by the regression and found nearest neighbor features. I mainly compared countries at the 5th and 95th percentiles of the democracy index by computing ratios of cosine similarities.

### Results

#### Nearest Neighbors Based on ALC Embedding

Table 1 shows the nearest neighbors for the overall "ruleoflaw" embedding from the whole corpus (i.e. 9441 U.N. Security Council speeches that mentioned "ruleoflaw"). Overall, countries, NGOs, and supranational organizations emphasized the importance of the rule of law and linked it to democratic concepts and human rights.

Tables 2 & 3 present the nearest neighbor features for the specific contexts of China and the U.S., respectively. Table 4 displays the ratios of cosine similarities. The features with values larger than 1 are more associated with "ruleoflaw" in China's context compared to the U.S. context; vice versa, features with values smaller than 1 are more associated with "ruleoflaw" in the U.S. context compared to China's context. The interpretation is that the U.S. tends to understand the rule of law as the protection of individuals' rights during international crises and the institutions and governance in the international decision-making process. In contrast, China tends to link it to stability, security, and economic development.

**Table 1**:

| **feature**   | **rank** | **value** |
|:--------------|:---------|:----------|
| ruleoflaw     | 1        | 0.9131961 |
| strengthening | 2        | 0.7963212 |
| respect       | 3        | 0.7717734 |
| institutions  | 4        | 0.7662984 |
| governance    | 5        | 0.7577117 |
| humanrights   | 6        | 0.7551350 |
| essential     | 7        | 0.7542815 |
| justice       | 8        | 0.7154632 |
| ensuring      | 9        | 0.7127769 |
| promoting     | 10       | 0.7118825 |

**Table 2**:

| **feature**   | **rank** | **value** |
|:--------------|:---------|:----------|
| ruleoflaw     | 1        | 0.7990605 |
| stability     | 2        | 0.7661675 |
| development   | 3        | 0.7271184 |
| strengthening | 4        | 0.7197165 |
| institutions  | 5        | 0.7150364 |
| essential     | 6        | 0.7013694 |
| promote       | 7        | 0.6952098 |
| security      | 8        | 0.6859930 |
| efforts       | 9        | 0.6810040 |
| strengthen    | 10       | 0.6791745 |

**Table 3**:

| **feature**   | **rank** | **value** |
|:--------------|:---------|:----------|
| ruleoflaw     | 1        | 0.8580669 |
| institutions  | 2        | 0.7776769 |
| governance    | 3        | 0.7363304 |
| strengthen    | 4        | 0.7262979 |
| strengthening | 5        | 0.7179879 |
| respect       | 6        | 0.7093298 |
| promote       | 7        | 0.6938324 |
| essential     | 8        | 0.6928845 |
| humanrights   | 9        | 0.6892298 |
| build         | 10       | 0.6694275 |

**Table 4**:

| rank   | **feature**   | **value** |
|:-------|:--------------|:----------|
| **1**  | economic      | 1.2485221 |
| **2**  | development   | 1.2004488 |
| **3**  | stability     | 1.1930074 |
| **4**  | security      | 1.1005233 |
| **5**  | efforts       | 1.0579386 |
| **6**  | essential     | 1.0122458 |
| **7**  | strengthening | 1.0024076 |
| **8**  | promote       | 1.0019851 |
| **9**  | respect       | 0.9504743 |
| **10** | strengthen    | 0.9351184 |
| **11** | ruleoflaw     | 0.9312333 |
| **12** | democracy     | 0.9219601 |
| **13** | institutions  | 0.9194518 |
| **14** | build         | 0.8939435 |
| **15** | governance    | 0.8632018 |
| **16** | humanrights   | 0.8387187 |

#### conText Embedding Regression Results

The regression model outputs a p-value of 0 and lower and higher confidence intervals of 0.06375997 and 0.07463132, indicating the regression result is significant. Based on the nearest neighbor features (not presented here due to page limitation) for the embedding of "ruleoflaw" for countries at every 5th percentile, as estimated by the regression, even countries at the 95th percentile and 5th percentile have similar top nearest neighbors like "strengthening" and "respect", indicating their shared the acknowledgment of the importance of the rule of law. However, when taking the ratios of cosine similarities, the results show that countries at the 5th percentile tend to link the phrase to "stability" (ratio: 0.9238250) and "democracy" (0.9656132, not as significant as "stability"), while those at 95th percentile tend to emphasize its importance and associate it with human rights (1.0519852) and justice (1.0468595). Table 5 displays the ratios of cosine similarities between countries at the 95th percentile and 5th percentile of the democracy index.

Considering that China typically connects the rule of law to stability, I removed all speeches by China from the dataset and ran the regression again. Still, "stability" has the lowest cosine similarity ratio (0.9450454), suggesting that linking the rule of law to stability is a common observation for countries with low democracy scores, not uniquely for China, though it is a very typical example.

**Table 5**:

| rank   | **feature**   | **value** |
|:-------|:--------------|:----------|
| **1**  | crucial       | 1.0769875 |
| **2**  | regard        | 1.0715406 |
| **3**  | essential     | 1.0524188 |
| **4**  | humanrights   | 1.0519852 |
| **5**  | justice       | 1.0468595 |
| **6**  | ensuring      | 1.0364412 |
| **7**  | ruleoflaw     | 1.0223068 |
| **8**  | fundamental   | 1.0195719 |
| **9**  | strengthen    | 1.0158669 |
| **10** | strengthening | 1.0152380 |
| **11** | institutions  | 1.0081698 |
| **12** | respect       | 1.0041441 |
| **13** | promotion     | 0.9917010 |
| **14** | governance    | 0.9786736 |
| **15** | promoting     | 0.9721091 |
| **16** | democracy     | 0.9656132 |
| **17** | promote       | 0.9601427 |
| **18** | stability     | 0.9238250 |

### Discussions

Based on the results from ALC embedding and conText Regression, this study found that, in the scenario of U.N. Security Council debates, countries like China and the U.S. showed different understandings of the rule of law. The U.S. presents a traditional Western liberal-democratic interpretation of the rule of law, while China possibly considers it as a pragmatic means to broader socioeconomic and political goals. Also, states with lower democracy scores tend to link the rule of law to stability, which might suggest maintaining stability holds high importance for non-democratic countries.

One limitation of this study is the lack of understanding of why the countries associate the rule of law with distinct words in the broader context of international politics. In the future, it would be helpful to integrate background insights about state policies and international relations to better understand what the findings suggest about countries' different perspectives regarding the rule of law, and how this could help explain international conflicts and collaborations.

### References

Economist Intelligence Unit (2010) – processed by Our World in Data. “Democracy index” [Data set]. Economist Intelligence Unit, “Democracy Index 2021: The China challenge”; Economist Intelligence Unit, “Democracy Index 2022: Frontline democracy and the battle for Ukraine”; Economist Intelligence Unit, “Democracy Index 2023: Age of Conflict”; Gapminder, “Democracy Index v4” [original data]. Retrieved May 28, 2024 from <https://ourworldindata.org/grapher/democracy-index-eiu>

Khodak, M., Saunshi, N., Liang, Y., Ma, T., Stewart, B., & Arora, S. (2018). A la carte embedding: Cheap but effective induction of semantic feature vectors. *arXiv preprint arXiv:1805.05388*.

Pennington, J., Socher, R., & Manning, C. D. (2014). Glove: Global vectors for word representation. In Proceedings of the 2014 conference on empirical methods in natural language processing (EMNLP) (pp. 1532-1543).

Rodríguez, P. L. (2023, August 4). *conText - Quick Start Guide*. GitHub. <https://github.com/prodriguezsosa/conText/blob/master/vignettes/quickstart.md>

Rodriguez, P. L., Spirling, A., & Stewart, B. M. (2023). Embedding Regression: Models for Context-Specific Description and Inference. American Political Science Review, 117(4), 1255–1274. <doi:10.1017/S0003055422001228>

Schoenfeld, M., Eckhard, S., Patz, R., Meegdenburg, H. van, & Pires, A. (2019). The UN Security Council Debates (Version V5) [Data set]. Harvard Dataverse. <https://doi.org/10.7910/DVN/KGVSYH>

### Dataset Information

1.  This project uses data from The UN Security Council Debates dataset, available at <https://dataverse.harvard.edu/dataset.xhtml?persistentId=doi:10.7910/DVN/KGVSYH>. The dataset is licensed under the [CC0 1.0 Universal](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) (<https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/>).

Attribution: Schoenfeld et al. (2019) (See References)

Changes Made: The datasets were merged, cleaned, and filtered. Specific phrases in the texts were standardized and transformed into single terms for contextual computational text analysis. All the changes are documented in [Data Pre-Processing.R](https://github.com/jchensd/POLI_179_Jingyi_Chen/blob/1cd9b5c8ce4a08500eac5539f8293f826062e056/Code/Data%20Pre-Processing.R).

2.  The Democracy Index dataset, available at <https://ourworldindata.org/grapher/democracy-index-eiu>, is also used in the project. The dataset is governed by the EIU’s licensing terms and conditions, as outlined in their [Terms and conditions of access](https://www.eiu.com/n/terms/) (<https://www.eiu.com/n/terms/>).

Attribution: Economist Intelligence Unit (2010) (See References)

Changes Made: The country names were reformatted to ensure correct merging with The UN Security Council Debates dataset.

Commit message:

moved acknowledgment of Rodriguez (2023) to the Methods section for clarity

README.md, after:

## Decoding Country Perspectives on the Rule of Law in U.N. Security Council Debates: A Comparative Analysis Leveraging à la carte (ALC) Embedding and conText Embedding Regression

### Group

![]()Jingyi Chen (jic090\@ucsd.edu)

### Overview

The rule of law is a fundamental concept in democratic state governance and international legal systems. In the United Nations Security Council (UNSC), where countries deliberate on global conflicts and collaborations, how countries frame this concept on the international stage can provide critical insights into their values and political objectives. How do the conceptualizations of the rule of law differ between China and Western countries such as the United States? To address this question, this project applied advanced computational text analysis methods of the à la carte (ALC) Embedding (Khodak et al., 2018) and the conText Regression (Rodriguez et al., 2023) to compare the contextual meanings of the rule of law in the UNSC debates between the United States and China and across countries with different democracy indices (Economist Intelligence Unit, 2010).

I conducted data merging and cleaning in [UNSC Data Pre-Processing.R](https://github.com/jchensd/POLI_179_Jingyi_Chen/blob/c9364474798a389fe38eec6f550556d666f3a6fb/Code/UNSC%20Data%20Pre-Processing.R) and [Democracy Index Data Pre-Processing and Merging with UNSC Data.R](https://github.com/jchensd/POLI_179_Jingyi_Chen/blob/c9364474798a389fe38eec6f550556d666f3a6fb/Code/Democracy%20Index%20Data%20Pre-Processing%20and%20Merging%20with%20UNSC%20Data.R). The code for my main analyses is in [Main Analyses.R](https://github.com/jchensd/POLI_179_Jingyi_Chen/blob/c9364474798a389fe38eec6f550556d666f3a6fb/Code/Main%20Analyses.R). See References for the links to the data used in this project.

The results suggest that the U.S. tends to understand the rule of law based on Western legal traditions emphasizing universal principles of justice, democracy, and human rights. In contrast, China links it to economic and social aspects, emphasizing development and stability. Showing a more pragmatic interpretation of the rule of law, China considers it as the means to create a stable and orderly social and political environment, both domestically and internationally; It focuses on the functional benefits of the rule of law, such as improving governance efficiency and promoting economic growth, instead of prioritizing individual rights and democratic values. Moreover, countries with low democracy indices tend to associate the rule of law with stability, which might suggest that the preservation of stability holds high importance for non-democratic regimes.

### Data

#### Overview

The main data analyzed in this project is the United Nations Security Council debates (Schoenfeld et al., 2019). The filtered data include 9441 speeches that mentioned "rule of law" from January 1995 to December 2020 and their document IDs, as well as the metadata, including country, speaker, and date. The mention of the rule of law in the U.N. Security Council has increased in the last two decades. While it was not frequently brought up during the debates, with about 10 percent of speeches that mentioned it among all speeches per year in the past 20 years (Figure 1), the manner in which countries discuss this concept can provide implications about their values and goals.

![Figure 1: Proportions of U.N. Security Council Speeches Mentioning 'Rule of Law' by Year](https://github.com/jchensd/POLI_179_Jingyi_Chen/assets/169096479/2e72ba6c-7540-4a3a-b6a6-af5afb57365f) Figure 1: Proportions of U.N. Security Council Speeches Mentioning 'Rule of Law' by Year

The Democracy Index is a value indicating a country's level of democracy, ranging from 0 to 10 (Economist Intelligence Unit, 2010). I used democracy index data in 2010 to analyze the difference in the meaning of the rule of law among countries with higher and lower democracy scores.

#### Data Pre-Processing

I merged the separate files of the original data package using the shared document IDs. Because the primary objective of this project is to examine how the phrase "rule of law", or the targeted/focal term, is used by different countries, it was made into one term, i.e. "ruleoflaw". Also, because I am also interested in whether some countries are more likely to link "human rights" to "ruleoflaw", the former phrase is also made into one term, i.e. "humanrights". "United Nations" and "Security Council" were also made into single terms. The whole dataset of speeches was filtered into only those that mentioned "ruleoflaw".

Then, I converted the column of texts into a corpus and tokens. I also conducted common text pre-processing using the "quanteda" package, including removing punctuation, symbols, numbers, separators, English stopwords, words with 2 or fewer characters, and words appearing less than 5 times in the corpus (I used "padding=TRUE" to leave an empty string where the removed tokens previously existed), as well as converting words to lower case.

### Methods

#### 1. à la carte (ALC) Embedding

I used the "conText" package (Rodriguez, 2023) developed by Rodriguez et al. (2023) to conduct analysis in R. In order to examine the contextual meanings of "ruleoflaw" by analyzing words surrounding this term, I collected 6 words before and after every instance in which "ruleoflaw" was mentioned among the speeches as well as the metadata associated with the instance. A document feature matrix was built, where the rows were the total 16145 instances of "ruleoflaw".

Then, I estimated GloVe embeddings from the 9441 U.N. Security Council speeches using the "text2vec" package. A transform matrix (Matrix A) was computed using the "compute-transform" function. It helps weight the common, uninformative words lower in the embeddings.

The ALC embedding method estimates the embedding of the targeted word in a specific context by taking the average of the embeddings of words surrounding this word (e.g. 6 words before and after the targeted word) (Khodak et al., 2018). I obtained the embeddings of the words surrounding the 16145 instances of "ruleoflaw" from the GloVe model estimated previously and applied the transform matrix to construct a document-embedding matrix that contains the embeddings. Then, I took the column average of these embeddings to get the context-specific embedding for "ruleoflaw". With the GloVe embedding model, I found nearest neighbor features for country-specific "ruleoflaw" embeddings. I also computed cosine similarities between China and U.S.'s "ruleoflaw" embeddings and available features in the corpus to find words that distinguish the two countries the most. To obtain the ratios, it first computed the cosine similarities between the embeddings of "ruleoflaw" and available features in the corpus for China and the U.S. Then, it takes the ratio of cosine similarities between the two countries for each feature.

I would like to appreciate Rodriguez (2023) for providing a helpful guide on implementing ALC Embedding and conText Regression using the "conText" package. 
The guide is available on GitHub at: <https://github.com/prodriguezsosa/conText/blob/c373ea228ecdbe05597080e19b570f373c628c03/vignettes/quickstart.md>.

#### 2. conText Embedding Regression

Using the conText regression model, I regressed the embedding of "ruleoflaw" over the 2010 Democracy Index. Before doing so, I merged the U.N. Security Council dataset with the 2010 Democracy Index data. Speeches by NGOs, supranational unions, and a few countries for which Democracy Index data were unavailable were removed from the dataset. There are 7879 speeches by countries left.

After constructing the regression, I obtained the embeddings for countries at every 5th percentile of the democracy index that was estimated by the regression and found nearest neighbor features. I mainly compared countries at the 5th and 95th percentiles of the democracy index by computing ratios of cosine similarities.

### Results

#### Nearest Neighbors Based on ALC Embedding

Table 1 shows the nearest neighbors for the overall "ruleoflaw" embedding from the whole corpus (i.e. 9441 U.N. Security Council speeches that mentioned "ruleoflaw"). Overall, countries, NGOs, and supranational organizations emphasized the importance of the rule of law and linked it to democratic concepts and human rights.

Tables 2 & 3 present the nearest neighbor features for the specific contexts of China and the U.S., respectively. Table 4 displays the ratios of cosine similarities. The features with values larger than 1 are more associated with "ruleoflaw" in China's context compared to the U.S. context; vice versa, features with values smaller than 1 are more associated with "ruleoflaw" in the U.S. context compared to China's context. The interpretation is that the U.S. tends to understand the rule of law as the protection of individuals' rights during international crises and the institutions and governance in the international decision-making process. In contrast, China tends to link it to stability, security, and economic development.

**Table 1**:

| **feature**   | **rank** | **value** |
|:--------------|:---------|:----------|
| ruleoflaw     | 1        | 0.9131961 |
| strengthening | 2        | 0.7963212 |
| respect       | 3        | 0.7717734 |
| institutions  | 4        | 0.7662984 |
| governance    | 5        | 0.7577117 |
| humanrights   | 6        | 0.7551350 |
| essential     | 7        | 0.7542815 |
| justice       | 8        | 0.7154632 |
| ensuring      | 9        | 0.7127769 |
| promoting     | 10       | 0.7118825 |

**Table 2**:

| **feature**   | **rank** | **value** |
|:--------------|:---------|:----------|
| ruleoflaw     | 1        | 0.7990605 |
| stability     | 2        | 0.7661675 |
| development   | 3        | 0.7271184 |
| strengthening | 4        | 0.7197165 |
| institutions  | 5        | 0.7150364 |
| essential     | 6        | 0.7013694 |
| promote       | 7        | 0.6952098 |
| security      | 8        | 0.6859930 |
| efforts       | 9        | 0.6810040 |
| strengthen    | 10       | 0.6791745 |

**Table 3**:

| **feature**   | **rank** | **value** |
|:--------------|:---------|:----------|
| ruleoflaw     | 1        | 0.8580669 |
| institutions  | 2        | 0.7776769 |
| governance    | 3        | 0.7363304 |
| strengthen    | 4        | 0.7262979 |
| strengthening | 5        | 0.7179879 |
| respect       | 6        | 0.7093298 |
| promote       | 7        | 0.6938324 |
| essential     | 8        | 0.6928845 |
| humanrights   | 9        | 0.6892298 |
| build         | 10       | 0.6694275 |

**Table 4**:

| rank   | **feature**   | **value** |
|:-------|:--------------|:----------|
| **1**  | economic      | 1.2485221 |
| **2**  | development   | 1.2004488 |
| **3**  | stability     | 1.1930074 |
| **4**  | security      | 1.1005233 |
| **5**  | efforts       | 1.0579386 |
| **6**  | essential     | 1.0122458 |
| **7**  | strengthening | 1.0024076 |
| **8**  | promote       | 1.0019851 |
| **9**  | respect       | 0.9504743 |
| **10** | strengthen    | 0.9351184 |
| **11** | ruleoflaw     | 0.9312333 |
| **12** | democracy     | 0.9219601 |
| **13** | institutions  | 0.9194518 |
| **14** | build         | 0.8939435 |
| **15** | governance    | 0.8632018 |
| **16** | humanrights   | 0.8387187 |

#### conText Embedding Regression Results

The regression model outputs a p-value of 0 and lower and higher confidence intervals of 0.06375997 and 0.07463132, indicating the regression result is significant. Based on the nearest neighbor features (not presented here due to page limitation) for the embedding of "ruleoflaw" for countries at every 5th percentile, as estimated by the regression, even countries at the 95th percentile and 5th percentile have similar top nearest neighbors like "strengthening" and "respect", indicating their shared the acknowledgment of the importance of the rule of law. However, when taking the ratios of cosine similarities, the results show that countries at the 5th percentile tend to link the phrase to "stability" (ratio: 0.9238250) and "democracy" (0.9656132, not as significant as "stability"), while those at 95th percentile tend to emphasize its importance and associate it with human rights (1.0519852) and justice (1.0468595). Table 5 displays the ratios of cosine similarities between countries at the 95th percentile and 5th percentile of the democracy index.

Considering that China typically connects the rule of law to stability, I removed all speeches by China from the dataset and ran the regression again. Still, "stability" has the lowest cosine similarity ratio (0.9450454), suggesting that linking the rule of law to stability is a common observation for countries with low democracy scores, not uniquely for China, though it is a very typical example.

**Table 5**:

| rank   | **feature**   | **value** |
|:-------|:--------------|:----------|
| **1**  | crucial       | 1.0769875 |
| **2**  | regard        | 1.0715406 |
| **3**  | essential     | 1.0524188 |
| **4**  | humanrights   | 1.0519852 |
| **5**  | justice       | 1.0468595 |
| **6**  | ensuring      | 1.0364412 |
| **7**  | ruleoflaw     | 1.0223068 |
| **8**  | fundamental   | 1.0195719 |
| **9**  | strengthen    | 1.0158669 |
| **10** | strengthening | 1.0152380 |
| **11** | institutions  | 1.0081698 |
| **12** | respect       | 1.0041441 |
| **13** | promotion     | 0.9917010 |
| **14** | governance    | 0.9786736 |
| **15** | promoting     | 0.9721091 |
| **16** | democracy     | 0.9656132 |
| **17** | promote       | 0.9601427 |
| **18** | stability     | 0.9238250 |

### Discussions

Based on the results from ALC embedding and conText Regression, this study found that, in the scenario of U.N. Security Council debates, countries like China and the U.S. showed different understandings of the rule of law. The U.S. presents a traditional Western liberal-democratic interpretation of the rule of law, while China possibly considers it as a pragmatic means to broader socioeconomic and political goals. Also, states with lower democracy scores tend to link the rule of law to stability, which might suggest maintaining stability holds high importance for non-democratic countries.

One limitation of this study is the lack of understanding of why the countries associate the rule of law with distinct words in the broader context of international politics. In the future, it would be helpful to integrate background insights about state policies and international relations to better understand what the findings suggest about countries' different perspectives regarding the rule of law, and how this could help explain international conflicts and collaborations.

### References

Economist Intelligence Unit (2010) – processed by Our World in Data. “Democracy index” [Data set]. Economist Intelligence Unit, “Democracy Index 2021: The China challenge”; Economist Intelligence Unit, “Democracy Index 2022: Frontline democracy and the battle for Ukraine”; Economist Intelligence Unit, “Democracy Index 2023: Age of Conflict”; Gapminder, “Democracy Index v4” [original data]. Retrieved May 28, 2024 from <https://ourworldindata.org/grapher/democracy-index-eiu>

Khodak, M., Saunshi, N., Liang, Y., Ma, T., Stewart, B., & Arora, S. (2018). A la carte embedding: Cheap but effective induction of semantic feature vectors. *arXiv preprint arXiv:1805.05388*.

Pennington, J., Socher, R., & Manning, C. D. (2014). Glove: Global vectors for word representation. In Proceedings of the 2014 conference on empirical methods in natural language processing (EMNLP) (pp. 1532-1543).

Rodríguez, P. L. (2023, August 4). *conText - Quick Start Guide*. GitHub. <https://github.com/prodriguezsosa/conText/blob/master/vignettes/quickstart.md>

Rodriguez, P. L., Spirling, A., & Stewart, B. M. (2023). Embedding Regression: Models for Context-Specific Description and Inference. American Political Science Review, 117(4), 1255–1274. <doi:10.1017/S0003055422001228>

Schoenfeld, M., Eckhard, S., Patz, R., Meegdenburg, H. van, & Pires, A. (2019). The UN Security Council Debates (Version V5) [Data set]. Harvard Dataverse. <https://doi.org/10.7910/DVN/KGVSYH>

### Dataset Information

1.  This project uses data from The UN Security Council Debates dataset, available at <https://dataverse.harvard.edu/dataset.xhtml?persistentId=doi:10.7910/DVN/KGVSYH>. The dataset is licensed under the [CC0 1.0 Universal](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) (<https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/>).

Attribution: Schoenfeld et al. (2019) (See References)

Changes Made: The datasets were merged, cleaned, and filtered. Specific phrases in the texts were standardized and transformed into single terms for contextual computational text analysis. All the changes are documented in [Data Pre-Processing.R](https://github.com/jchensd/POLI_179_Jingyi_Chen/blob/1cd9b5c8ce4a08500eac5539f8293f826062e056/Code/Data%20Pre-Processing.R).

2.  The Democracy Index dataset, available at <https://ourworldindata.org/grapher/democracy-index-eiu>, is also used in the project. The dataset is governed by the EIU’s licensing terms and conditions, as outlined in their [Terms and conditions of access](https://www.eiu.com/n/terms/) (<https://www.eiu.com/n/terms/>).

Attribution: Economist Intelligence Unit (2010) (See References)

Changes Made: The country names were reformatted to ensure correct merging with The UN Security Council Debates dataset.
